Why do you want to intern at The Pudding?

I want to intern at The Pudding because I believe data journalism to be one of the most impactful areas of work inside of the larger industry of data. I also have practical motivations; I currently live in rural Alabama and a remote job would be wonderful. I am a Master's student looking to put the skills I've been learning; Python and SQL, to real-world use and data journalism allows me to do so, while still working to advance public discourse on topics that matter.

What are three story ideas you’ve been keen on creating? Your response should be fairly short, about a paragraph or two each. They should outline what the idea is and how you might present it (regardless of your present day skillset). 

1. European Americans. I've always wondered why the phrase "European Americans" perplexes white Americans. When and how did the lack of acceptance of ancestry come about? White Americans speak as if they've always been in North America. I'd love to dig into primary sources for how different immigrant groups assimilated and became part of the normal. There is also a lot that could be done visually, on etymology of how we as a society, label different groups of people and ourselves.

2. Technically not War Refugees. I want to work on a story on those people who are not considered Refugees by American law because of geopolitical reasons. I come from a Salvadoran family who fled the violence and disarray in El Salvador but are never going to be considered as refugees by the American Government because of their hand in the destabilization. Despite not having these skills yet, I would ideally bring this story to life by combining anecdotal stories and visual statistics from different countries on a world map. Borders, a show from Vox, provides a lot of inspiration for me on this vision.

3. Media Portrayals vs Real Life Statistics. This can be a series of stories focusing on a different demographic on each one. Media often gives outsized weight to portrayals of groups of people that have no basis in real life data. The most obvious recent example is immigrants from Latin America portrayed as criminals. But I believe there are many overlooked groups of people who can be showcased as authentic, human, and richly complex. As opposed to charicatures shown in movies and news segments. Visually, A side by side scroll-down article would be great. On one side, the charicature, on the other side, the human.


My mother was pregnant with me when she came to the United States and I lived a life between that of a 1st generation and 2nd generation immigrant. This first-hand experience gives me insight into the faults of data classification. I grew up in the gray area in between and I believe the stories in this area, are the ones worth telling. I have a Bachelor's of Science in Education with an emphasis in Social Science. I was a history high school teacher before realizing that I wanted a life in which I could provide enough for myself and my family. That is one reason why I made the pivot to technology and don't have a typical perspective.
